components/node.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Node'
sidebarTitle: 'Node'
description: 'Primary canvas element. Configurable via props or by passing a custom node as children'
---

## Description

A Node can be configured in two primary ways.

First, you can customize the default node by passing props to control color, border, size, position, etc.

Second, you can wrap your own custom components with our Node component and use the exposed actions, properties and events however you choose. Pass the entire component as a child of the Svelvet component to render it on the canvas.

<RequestExample>
```HTML MyNode.svelte
<script>
  import { Node } from 'svelvet';

function handleClick(e: CustomEvent) {
const { detail } = e;
detail.node.set.bgColor('red');
}

</script>

<Node id="55" let:grabHandle let:selected on:nodeClicked="{handleClick}">
  <div use:grabHandle class:selected class="my-component">
    <span>Click Me</span>
  </div>
</Node>
```
</RequestExample>
```HTML MyNode.svelte
<script>
  import { Node, Svelvet } from 'svelvet';
  import { MyNode } from './MyNode.svelte';
</script>

<Svelvet>
  <MyNode />
  <Node id="alpha" bgColor="red" label="Default Node" />
</Svelvet>
```
<Tip>
  When creating custom nodes, styling should be handled entirely within the
  context of your component. Passing props to the Node wrapper may not result in
  your intended styling. If you'd like the Node to be resizable, you can set
  initial dimensions via props, but set your CSS width and height to 100%
</Tip>

## Props

<ResponseField
  name="position"
  type="{x: number, y: number}"
  default="{x: 0, y: 0}"
>
  Initial position of the node. Coordinate is relative to the top/left point of
  the canvas.
</ResponseField>
<ResponseField
  name="dimensions"
  type="{ width: number, height: number }"
  default="{ width: 200, height: 100 }"
>
  Initial dimensions of the node. Pixel value based on initial scale.
</ResponseField>
<ResponseField
  name="connections"
  type="Array<[nodeId, anchorId] | nodeId>"
  default="[]"
>
  Used to specify Node connections ahead of time. Array of tuples representing a
  node/anchor pair or of nodeIds themselves. IDs can be strings or numbers. When
  specifying nodeIds only, connections are spread evenly across the input
  anchors of the target.
</ResponseField>

<ResponseField name="id" type="number | string" default="incrementing integer">
  Identification for the node. If not passed, defaults to an incrementing
  integer. Used as the HTML id value for the element taking the form N-id.
</ResponseField>
<ResponseField name="edge" type="Edge Component">
  A custom Edge component to be used as the default Edge style for the Node. Can
  be overriden at the Anchor level.
</ResponseField>
<ResponseField name="inputs" type="number" default="1">
  Number of input anchors placed on the node.
</ResponseField>
<ResponseField name="outputs" type="number" default="1">
  Number of output anchors placed on the node.
</ResponseField>
<ResponseField name="useDefaults" type="boolean" default="false">
  When creating custom Nodes, pass the useDefaults prop to use Svelvet's default
  Node styling.
</ResponseField>
<ResponseField name="bgColor" type="CSS Color String" default="theme dependent">
  The initial background color of the node. Default changes based on theme.
</ResponseField>
<ResponseField
  name="borderColor"
  type="CSS Color String"
  default="theme dependent"
>
  The initial border color of the node. Default changes based on theme.
</ResponseField>
<ResponseField name="rotation" type="number" default="0">
  Initial roation of node. Can be set dynamically when the Node is resizable.
</ResponseField>
<ResponseField name="borderWidth" type="number" default="1">
  Pixel value of the border at default scale.
</ResponseField>
<ResponseField
  name="textColor"
  type="CSS Color String"
  default="theme dependent"
>
  The initial text color of the node. Default changes based on theme.
</ResponseField>
<ResponseField
  name="selectionColor"
  type="CSS Color String"
  default="theme dependent"
>
  Color of the border when the node is selected.
</ResponseField>
<ResponseField name="label" type="string" default="">
  Label for the default node. Centered horizontally and vertically
</ResponseField>
<ResponseField name="TD" type="boolean" default="false">
  Controls the default direction of the canvas. When true, input anchors on top
  and output anchors on the bottom. If neither TD or LR are passed, node
  direction defaults to canvas direction.
</ResponseField>
<ResponseField name="LR" type="boolean" default="false">
  Controls the default direction of the canvas. When true, input anchors are
  placed on left and output anchors on the right. If neither TD or LR are
  passed, node direction defaults to canvas direction.
</ResponseField>
<ResponseField name="zIndex" type="number | Infinity | -Infinity" default="1">
  Initial stacking placement of the node. To force a node to the top or bottom
  at all times, pass Infinity or -Infinity.
</ResponseField>
<ResponseField name="editable" type="boolean" default="false">
  Determines whether the node properties can be edited via right click.
</ResponseField>
<ResponseField name="locked" type="boolean" default="false">
  Prevents node from being moved. Can be set at the canvas level.
</ResponseField>

## Actions

<ResponseField name="let:grabHandle">
  Accessed via the let directive. Placed on an element (use:grabHandle) you
  would like to control movement and selection of the Node.
</ResponseField>

## Events

<ResponseField name="on:nodeClicked">
  Fires when the node is clicked.
</ResponseField>

<ResponseField name="on:connection">
  Fires whenever an anchor on the node is connected.
</ResponseField>

<ResponseField name="on:disconnection">
  Fires whenever an anchor on the node is disconnected.
</ResponseField>

## Properties

<ResponseField name="let:selected" type="boolean">
  Boolean representing whether or not the node is currently selected. Toggle
  classes by passing to an element using the class directive (class:selected).
</ResponseField>

<ResponseField name="let:node" type="object">
  The Node object from the Svelvet internal store.
</ResponseField>

Commit message:

Added NodeConfig tip to Node page.

components/node.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Node'
sidebarTitle: 'Node'
description: 'Primary canvas element. Configurable via props or by passing a custom node as children'
---

<Tip>
  The props interface for the Node component is available by importing the
  `NodeConfig` type
</Tip>

## Description

A Node can be configured in two primary ways.

First, you can customize the default node by passing props to control color, border, size, position, etc.

Second, you can wrap your own custom components with our Node component and use the exposed actions, properties and events however you choose. Pass the entire component as a child of the Svelvet component to render it on the canvas.

<RequestExample>
```HTML MyNode.svelte
<script>
  import { Node } from 'svelvet';

function handleClick(e: CustomEvent) {
const { detail } = e;
detail.node.set.bgColor('red');
}

</script>

<Node id="55" let:grabHandle let:selected on:nodeClicked="{handleClick}">
  <div use:grabHandle class:selected class="my-component">
    <span>Click Me</span>
  </div>
</Node>
```
</RequestExample>
```HTML MyNode.svelte
<script>
  import { Node, Svelvet } from 'svelvet';
  import { MyNode } from './MyNode.svelte';
</script>

<Svelvet>
  <MyNode />
  <Node id="alpha" bgColor="red" label="Default Node" />
</Svelvet>
```
<Tip>
  When creating custom nodes, styling should be handled entirely within the
  context of your component. Passing props to the Node wrapper may not result in
  your intended styling. If you'd like the Node to be resizable, you can set
  initial dimensions via props, but set your CSS width and height to 100%
</Tip>

## Props

<ResponseField
  name="position"
  type="{x: number, y: number}"
  default="{x: 0, y: 0}"
>
  Initial position of the node. Coordinate is relative to the top/left point of
  the canvas.
</ResponseField>
<ResponseField
  name="dimensions"
  type="{ width: number, height: number }"
  default="{ width: 200, height: 100 }"
>
  Initial dimensions of the node. Pixel value based on initial scale.
</ResponseField>
<ResponseField
  name="connections"
  type="Array<[nodeId, anchorId] | nodeId>"
  default="[]"
>
  Used to specify Node connections ahead of time. Array of tuples representing a
  node/anchor pair or of nodeIds themselves. IDs can be strings or numbers. When
  specifying nodeIds only, connections are spread evenly across the input
  anchors of the target.
</ResponseField>

<ResponseField name="id" type="number | string" default="incrementing integer">
  Identification for the node. If not passed, defaults to an incrementing
  integer. Used as the HTML id value for the element taking the form N-id.
</ResponseField>
<ResponseField name="edge" type="Edge Component">
  A custom Edge component to be used as the default Edge style for the Node. Can
  be overriden at the Anchor level.
</ResponseField>
<ResponseField name="inputs" type="number" default="1">
  Number of input anchors placed on the node.
</ResponseField>
<ResponseField name="outputs" type="number" default="1">
  Number of output anchors placed on the node.
</ResponseField>
<ResponseField name="useDefaults" type="boolean" default="false">
  When creating custom Nodes, pass the useDefaults prop to use Svelvet's default
  Node styling.
</ResponseField>
<ResponseField name="bgColor" type="CSS Color String" default="theme dependent">
  The initial background color of the node. Default changes based on theme.
</ResponseField>
<ResponseField
  name="borderColor"
  type="CSS Color String"
  default="theme dependent"
>
  The initial border color of the node. Default changes based on theme.
</ResponseField>
<ResponseField name="rotation" type="number" default="0">
  Initial roation of node. Can be set dynamically when the Node is resizable.
</ResponseField>
<ResponseField name="borderWidth" type="number" default="1">
  Pixel value of the border at default scale.
</ResponseField>
<ResponseField
  name="textColor"
  type="CSS Color String"
  default="theme dependent"
>
  The initial text color of the node. Default changes based on theme.
</ResponseField>
<ResponseField
  name="selectionColor"
  type="CSS Color String"
  default="theme dependent"
>
  Color of the border when the node is selected.
</ResponseField>
<ResponseField name="label" type="string" default="">
  Label for the default node. Centered horizontally and vertically
</ResponseField>
<ResponseField name="TD" type="boolean" default="false">
  Controls the default direction of the canvas. When true, input anchors on top
  and output anchors on the bottom. If neither TD or LR are passed, node
  direction defaults to canvas direction.
</ResponseField>
<ResponseField name="LR" type="boolean" default="false">
  Controls the default direction of the canvas. When true, input anchors are
  placed on left and output anchors on the right. If neither TD or LR are
  passed, node direction defaults to canvas direction.
</ResponseField>
<ResponseField name="zIndex" type="number | Infinity | -Infinity" default="1">
  Initial stacking placement of the node. To force a node to the top or bottom
  at all times, pass Infinity or -Infinity.
</ResponseField>
<ResponseField name="editable" type="boolean" default="false">
  Determines whether the node properties can be edited via right click.
</ResponseField>
<ResponseField name="locked" type="boolean" default="false">
  Prevents node from being moved. Can be set at the canvas level.
</ResponseField>

## Actions

<ResponseField name="let:grabHandle">
  Accessed via the let directive. Placed on an element (use:grabHandle) you
  would like to control movement and selection of the Node.
</ResponseField>

## Events

<ResponseField name="on:nodeClicked">
  Fires when the node is clicked.
</ResponseField>

<ResponseField name="on:connection">
  Fires whenever an anchor on the node is connected.
</ResponseField>

<ResponseField name="on:disconnection">
  Fires whenever an anchor on the node is disconnected.
</ResponseField>

## Properties

<ResponseField name="let:selected" type="boolean">
  Boolean representing whether or not the node is currently selected. Toggle
  classes by passing to an element using the class directive (class:selected).
</ResponseField>

<ResponseField name="let:node" type="object">
  The Node object from the Svelvet internal store.
</ResponseField>
